hey this is presh tall walker construct
a semi circle with center o label one of
its endpoints is a and then construct a
perpendicular OB to AO now connect a and
B together and let it's a mid point B
Point D from there let's construct a
semi circle centered at Point D now
consider the area between a EB F and the
triangle a B oh what is the ratio
between the yellow area a EVF and the
blue triangle this is a famous
historical problem a EB F is called a
loon deriving from the Latin word Luna
for moon this is credited to hypocrite
ease of Caius who solved this in ancient
times nearly a hundred years before
Euclid now I should mention this is not
the same hippocrates of coasts who's the
doctor of Hippocratic oath Fame so you
might think this is a very basic
geometric problem but remember this was
even before Euclid wrote the elements
this is said to be the first precise
mathematical calculation of an area
between curved lines this is even before
the familiar formula for the area of a
circle so Hippocrates used very basic
principles this was solved using the
Pythagorean theorem and the second fact
that the area of a circle is
proportional to its diameter squared
using just these principles can you
solve for the ratio between the yellow
lune and the blue triangle I want to
thank Sahil day and byron from Melbourne
who suggested this problem can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for a hysto
Oracle solution first let's label the
diameter of the circle as AC since
is an isosceles right triangle a B is
equal to 800 times the square root of 2
by the Pythagorean theorem we can then
deduce that the diameter AC which is
equal to 2 times the radius
AO is equal to a B times the square root
of 2 because a circles area is
proportional to its diameter squared
semicircle ABC has two times the area as
semicircle a EB consequently half of
semicircle ABC which is the quarter
circle AFB oay has the same area as the
semicircle AE B in other words the area
of this quarter circle is exactly equal
to the area of this semicircle and now
we've pretty much solved it here comes a
magical step the lune a EB F and the
triangle are both found by
subtracting the same area AF ba from
shapes that have equal area the
semicircle a EB and the quarter circle a
FB oay thus the lune and the triangle
are found by subtracting the same area
from shapes of equal area therefore
their areas are equal you can also write
this out algebraically and you will note
that these two shapes have the same area
and you're subtracting the same area
from each of them therefore the two
areas are equal so I assume you'll be
able to figure this out because it's a
basic geometrical problem but it should
remind you some of these problems that
we find very basic and routine today
we're challenging thousands of years ago
so I hope this inspires you to solve a
problem today
students thousands of years from now
we'll learn in Grayskull thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
if you liked this video you can check
out my books which are listed in the
video description and you can support me
on patreon if you have a math topic you
can email me pressure at mind your
decisions calm and you can catch me on
social media either up mind your
decisions or a presto Walker